can you give me explanations for what you built so i can make a presentation

ChatGPT said:
Absolutely, bro! Here's a smooth breakdown of everything I built for the backend, written in a way you can use for your presentation — line by line if needed.

💾 Capstone Backend — QuickTask Fit
🧠 Purpose
This backend powers a personal fitness tracker. It lets users:

Create an account

Log in securely (JWT auth)

Track their workouts (type, intensity, duration)

Set fitness goals (with deadlines)

🔐 1. Authentication (JWT-based)
📄 api/users.js

POST /register: Creates a new user with a hashed password using bcrypt.

POST /login: Validates login, then returns a JWT token that the frontend stores in localStorage.

Middleware getUserFromToken decodes the JWT on each request and sets req.user.

Presentation Tip:

"I used JWT tokens to secure all protected routes. Every request checks who the user is before giving access to workouts or goals."

🏋🏽 2. Workouts Route
📄 api/workouts/index.js

GET /workouts: Returns all workouts for the currently logged-in user.

POST /workouts: Adds a new workout with:

type (e.g. cardio, strength)

intensity (low, med, high)

duration (in minutes)

Security: Protected by req.user. Only the user’s workouts show.

Presentation Tip:

"This route uses PostgreSQL queries with parameterized values to prevent SQL injection. It also ensures users can only see their own workouts."

🎯 3. Goals Route
📄 api/goals/index.js

GET /goals: Fetches all goals for the user (sorted newest first).

POST /goals: Adds a new goal with:

description

deadline (date)

Presentation Tip:

"This lets users stay accountable by creating clear goals with deadlines. I store those in a PostgreSQL table linked to the user."

🛠️ 4. Database Setup
📄 db/schema.sql

sql
Copy
Edit
CREATE TABLE workouts (
id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
type TEXT NOT NULL,
intensity TEXT,
duration INTEGER NOT NULL,
user_id INTEGER REFERENCES users(id),
created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);

CREATE TABLE goals (
id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
description TEXT NOT NULL,
deadline DATE NOT NULL,
user_id INTEGER REFERENCES users(id),
created_at TIMESTAMP DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP
);
Presentation Tip:

"Each workout and goal is tied to a user by user_id, using foreign key references. This keeps data organized and secure."

🧪 5. Dev Tools & Error Handling
morgan logs each request to help with debugging

handlePostgresErrors middleware catches DB issues

Uses express.json() to parse incoming request bodies

CORS configured to allow local frontend connection

🔐 Summary for Slide or Demo
"The backend is built with Express and PostgreSQL. All user data is secured with JWT authentication. It includes routes for logging workouts, setting fitness goals, and only returns data that belongs to the authenticated user."

Let me know if you want this in slide bullets or want me to move on to explain the frontend side next.

You said:
slide bullets please

ChatGPT said:
Say less! Here's your backend breakdown in slide-ready bullet points for your presentation deck or notes:

🎯 Slide 1: Project Overview
Full-stack fitness tracker app

Users can log workouts and set fitness goals

Backend built with Express and PostgreSQL

Frontend built with React + Context + CSS

🔐 Slide 2: Authentication (JWT)
/register: creates user with hashed password (bcrypt)

/login: verifies credentials, returns JWT

JWT stored in frontend, sent with each request

getUserFromToken middleware sets req.user

🏋🏽 Slide 3: Workout Routes
Route: /workouts

GET: fetches all workouts for logged-in user

POST: creates a new workout (type, intensity, duration)

Data is protected; only the user sees their workouts

Uses req.user.id to filter by user

🎯 Slide 4: Goal Routes
Route: /goals

GET: fetches all user goals

POST: adds a new goal with description + deadline

Goals are tied to the user using user_id

Sorted by most recent

🗃️ Slide 5: PostgreSQL Database Design
users: stores username + hashed password

workouts: stores workout data linked to user_id

goals: stores goal description + deadline, linked to user_id

Future stretch: goals_workouts to connect goals ↔ workouts

🛠️ Slide 6: Extra Features
CORS enabled for frontend-backend connection

morgan used for logging server requests

Error handling middleware for Postgres issues

Secure & scalable structure

Let me know when you're ready for the frontend slides or want the full presentation exported as a doc/pdf or Google Slides script.
